=Others shortcut key=

==Search==

* '''CTRL-O ''': opens a pop up listing all elements on the diagram. Selecting one of these elements brings the focus on this element and centers the diagram on this element.

==Tools==

* '''CTRL ''': When creating elements with the palette of a diagram, holding the CTRL key allows keeping the current creation tool active for another creation.

==Resizing elements==

There are specific shortcuts to change the resize behavior:

* '''CTRL''' (or ALT for Mac users): Centered resize (expands the shape on both opposite sides)
* '''SHIFT''': Resize that keeps the ratio
* '''ALT''' (or CTRL for Mac users): Resize without snap (temporarily disables the snap during the resize if it is activated). 
* '''F3''': Resize with children location relative to the parent. If the shape is resized '''to the left, upwards, or both''', the children (contained nodes for container and border nodes for all shapes) are moved with the same offset than the resize.
* '''F4''': Resize with snap to all shapes (if the Snap to shapes is already activated for the current diagram) 

==Moving elements==

There are specific shortcuts to change the move behavior:

* '''SHIFT''': Constrained move (only vertical or horizontal move is authorized at once).
* '''ALT''' (or CTRL for Mac users): Ignore snap while dragging (temporarily disables the snap during the move if it is activated).
* '''F3''': Move the edge source and target if pressed during the edge move (more details in Chapter 8.4)
* '''F4''': Move with snap to all shapes (if the Snap to shapes is already activated for the current diagram) (more details in Chapter 12.3)

==Selecting elements==
* '''CTRL''': Select a title block or a mode/state while clicking on one of its inner region
